Add Squid Proxy instructions (#15619)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/agent/proxy.md

## Web proxy

> ### Squid

Reviewer: We should show what settings govern proxy usage first (user may already have a proxy) so we should probably cover the generic proxy agent config first (`proxy.http`/`proxy.https`)and then show Squid as the easy way to set this up right below it.

> [Squid][2] is a forward proxy for the web supporting HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, and more. It runs on most available operating systems, including Windows, and is licensed under the GNU GPL. Squid is easy to configure and widely used for proxying traffic in a variety of different situations. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Squid][2] is a forward proxy for the web supporting HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, and more. It runs on most available operating systems including Windows and is licensed under the GNU GPL license. Squid is easy to configure and widely used for proxying traffic in a variety of different deployment scenarios. 
```

This is a simple, straightforward option if you do not already have a running web proxy in your network.

#### Proxy forwarding with Squid

##### Squid configuration

Squid should be installed on a host that has connectivity to Datadog. Use your operating system's package manager, or install the software directly from [Squid's project page][2].

Most of the settings below are configured within Squid's configuration file, usually located at `/etc/squid/squid.conf` on Linux or `C:\squid\etc\squid.conf` in Windows. 

###### Configure Squid to only send traffic to Datadog

Edit your `squid.conf` file so Squid is able to accept local traffic and forward it to the necessary Datadog intakes.

> An example config file is shared below, some of these ACLs (Access Lists) may already be defined:

Reviewer: I'm not sure what `some of these ACLs (Access Lists) may already be defined` means in this context though

```conf
http_port 0.0.0.0:3128

acl local src 127.0.0.1/32

acl Datadog dstdomain .{{< region-param key="dd_site" >}}

http_access allow Datadog
http_access allow local manager
```

###### Start Squid

> Restart Squid so that your configurations can be applied. If you're configuring Squid on Windows, you will first need [to configure Squid as a system service][9].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start (or restart if already started) Squid so that your new configurations can be applied. Note that if you are configuring Squid on Windows, you will first need [to configure Squid as a system service][9].
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Linux" %}}

```bash
sudo systemctl start squid
```

If Squid is already running, restart Squid instead with the following command:

```bash
sudo systemctl restart squid
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Windows" %}}

Assuming Squid is configured as a system service, you can run the following:

```bash
net start squid
```

If Squid is already running, restart Squid instead with the following commands:

```bash
net stop squid
net start squid
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

##### Datadog Agent configuration

**Agent v6 & v7**

Modify the Agent's configuration file (`datadog.yaml`) to include the following.

```yaml
proxy:
  http: http://127.0.0.1:3128
  https: http://127.0.0.1:3128
```

After saving these changes, [restart the Agent][1].

> Verify that everything is working by checking your [Infrastructure Overview][6].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verify that Datadog is able to receive the data from the Agent(s) by checking your [Infrastructure Overview][6].
```

**Agent v5**

Modify the Agent's configuration file (`datadog.conf`) to include the following.

```conf
proxy_host: 127.0.0.1
proxy_port: 3128
```

After saving these changes, [restart the Agent][1].

> Verify that everything is working by checking your [Infrastructure Overview][6].

Reviewer: Ditto on changes from Agent 6/7 section on this

Do not forget to [restart the Agent][1] for the new settings to take effect.

## Squid

[Squid][2] is a caching proxy for the web supporting HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, and more. It runs on most available operating systems, including Windows, and is licensed under the GNU GPL. Squid is easy to configure and widely used for proxying traffic in a variety of different situations. 

> This is the best option if you do not have a web proxy readily available in your network and you wish to proxy a large number of Agents. 

Author: @Kaderinho Those are fair concerns, I see where you're coming from when it comes to putting this under the Web Proxy section; but I think that maybe it may make sense to have a section called "Other Web Proxies," and then have a dedicated section for Squid (or have two sections under Web Proxy: "Squid" and "Other Web Proxies"). 

Customers starting from scratch typically jump straight to the Nginx/HAProxy section so it would still be useful to link them directly. 

>I don't think that Squid is the best option here especially because one of its main purpose is to cache web pages and therefore improving performances of a web server while our backend (AFAIK) will not send any static file to the Agent (so there's basically nothing to cache here).

You could make the same argument with HAProxy being traditionally used as a load balancer. You don't necessarily need to use the caching features of Squid in this case. 

>might actually need to benchmark Squid vs HAProxy with the Agent to have a good understanding of its impact

What is involved with doing this benchmarking? Many folks in the field are already recommending Squid to customers and have already implemented this as the proxying solution for at least the past couple of years.

### Proxy forwarding with Squid

#### Squid configuration

Squid should be installed on a host that has connectivity to Datadog. Use your operating system's package manager, or install the software directly from [Squid's project page][2].

Most of the settings below are configured within Squid's configuration file, usually located at `/etc/squid/squid.conf` on Linux or `C:\squid\etc\squid.conf` in Windows. 

##### Configure Squid to only send traffic to Datadog

First, configure Squid to accept traffic from the correct internal IP address ranges where your Agents are running. Many of these ACLs may already be defined.

Ensure that your `squid.conf` file contains the following settings. The IP ranges listed below may be different for your environment depending on your network.

> ```conf

Reviewer 2: I think the overall policy is to give already full configuration file that customers can copy/paste so that they have only a few lines / nothing to change. Would it be possible to do it for squid ?

http_port 0.0.0.0:3128

acl local src 127.0.0.1/32

acl Datadog dstdomain .{{< region-param key="dd_site" >}}

http_access allow Datadog
http_access allow local manager
```

##### Start Squid

> Restart Squid so that your configurations can be applied. If you're configuring Squid on Windows, you will first need [to configure Squid as a system service][9]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Restart Squid so that your configurations can be applied. If you're configuring Squid on Windows, you will first need [to configure Squid as a system service][9].
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Linux" %}}

```bash
sudo systemctl start squid
```

If Squid is already running, restart Squid instead with the following command:

```bash
sudo systemctl restart squid
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Windows" %}}

Assuming Squid is configured as a system service, you can run the following:

```bash
net start squid
```

If Squid is already running, restart Squid instead with the following commands:

```bash
net stop squid
net start squid
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> #### Datadog Agent configuration

Reviewer 2: This part is already mention above so I think it might be interesting to put part about Squid itself within the `## Web Proxy` section

Do not forget to [restart the Agent][1] for the new settings to take effect.

## Squid

> [Squid][2] is a caching proxy for the Web supporting HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, and more. It runs on most available operating systems, including Windows and is licensed under the GNU GPL. Squid is easy to configure and widely used for proxying traffic in a variety of different situations. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Squid][2] is a caching proxy for the web supporting HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, and more. It runs on most available operating systems, including Windows, and is licensed under the GNU GPL. Squid is easy to configure and widely used for proxying traffic in a variety of different situations. 
```

This is the best option if you do not have a web proxy readily available in your network and you wish to proxy a large number of Agents. 

### Proxy forwarding with Squid

#### Squid configuration

> Squid should be installed on a host that has connectivity to Datadog. Use your operating system's package manager or install the software directly from [Squid's project page][2].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Squid should be installed on a host that has connectivity to Datadog. Use your operating system's package manager, or install the software directly from [Squid's project page][2].
```

> Most of these settings will be configured within Squid's configuration file, usually located at `/etc/squid/squid.conf` on Linux or `C:\squid\etc\squid.conf` in Windows. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Most of the settings below are configured within Squid's configuration file, usually located at `/etc/squid/squid.conf` on Linux or `C:\squid\etc\squid.conf` in Windows. 
```

> ##### Define Access Lists (ACLs) for local IP address ranges

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
##### Define access control lists (ACLs) for local IP address ranges
```

> First, you will want to be sure that Squid is configured to accept traffic from the correct internal IP address ranges where your agents are running. Many of these Access Lists (ACLs) may already be defined.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First, configure Squid to accept traffic from the correct internal IP address ranges where your Agents are running. Many of these ACLs may already be defined.
```

Ensure that your `squid.conf` file contains the following. The IP ranges listed below may be different for your environment depending on your network.

```conf
# Example rule allowing access from local networks
# Adapt this list to your (internal) IP networks from which 

> # you would like to send agent traffic

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# you would like to send Agent traffic
```

acl localnet src 0.0.0.1-0.255.255.255  # RFC 1122 "this" network (LAN)
acl localnet src 10.0.0.0/8             # RFC 1918 local private network (LAN)
acl localnet src 100.64.0.0/10          # RFC 6598 shared address space (CGN)
acl localnet src 169.254.0.0/16         # RFC 3927 link-local (directly plugged) machines
acl localnet src 172.16.0.0/12          # RFC 1918 local private network (LAN)
acl localnet src 192.168.0.0/16         # RFC 1918 local private network (LAN)
acl localnet src fc00::/7               # RFC 4193 local private network range
acl localnet src fe80::/10              # RFC 4291 link-local (directly plugged) machines
```

##### Allow local traffic from the defined ACLs

> Now that your ACLs are correctly configured, modify `squid.conf` to allow HTTP traffic from the ACLs listed above.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Modify `squid.conf` to allow HTTP traffic from the ACLs listed above.
```

```conf
# Example rule allowing access from local networks
http_access allow localnet
http_access allow localhost
```

##### Ensure Squid is listening on the correct port

Squid should be listening on port `3128`, but you should check `squid.conf` to verify this. 

```conf
# Squid port
http_port 3128
```

##### Start Squid

> Now that Squid has been correctly configured, restart Squid so that your configurations can be applied.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Restart Squid so that your configurations can be applied.  
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Linux" %}}

```bash
sudo systemctl start squid
```

> If Squid is already running, restart Squid.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If Squid is already running, restart Squid instead with the following command:
```

```bash
sudo systemctl restart squid
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Windows" %}}

> Assuming you've [already configured Squid as a system service][9], you can run the following.

Reviewer 3: This link currently shows up as broken. In order for links to work within tabs, put the link target **inside** the tab (before `{{% /tab %}}`)

```bash
net start squid
```

> If Squid is already running, restart Squid.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If Squid is already running, restart Squid instead with the following commands:
```
